= heredoc_unindent

* https://github.com/adrianomitre/heredoc_unindent

== DESCRIPTION:

This gem removes common margin from indented strings, such as the ones
produced by indented heredocs. In other words, it strips out leading whitespace
chars at the beggining of each line, but only as much as the line with the
smallest margin.

It is acknowledged that many strings defined by heredocs are just code and fact
is that most parsers are insensitive to indentation. If, however, the strings
are to be used otherwise, be it for printing or testing, the extra indentation
will probably be an issue and hence this gem.

== SYNOPSIS:

  if true
    s = <<-EOS
      How sad it is
        to be unable
      to unindent heredocs
    EOS
    t = <<-EOS.unindent
      How wonderful it is
        to be able
      to do it!
    EOS
  end

  s[0..12]  #=>  "      How sad"
  t[0..12]  #=>  "How wonderful"

  s = "   foo"  #=>  "   foo"
  s.unindent!   #=>  "foo"
  s.unindent!   #=>  nil
  s             #=>  "foo"

== FEATURES:

* Tested on all major Ruby interpreters (100% coverage, 0% failure):
  * ruby-1.9.2-p136
  * ruby-1.8.7-p330
  * ree-1.8.7-2010.02
  * jruby-1.5.6
  * rbx-1.2.0-20101221

== REQUIREMENTS:

* None: this gem does not depend on any other gem.

== INSTALL:

* sudo gem install heredoc_unindent

== DEVELOPERS:

After checking out the source, run:

  $ rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests/specs,
and generate the RDoc.

== ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The initial implementation was based on the answer by Rene Saarsoo to the question
{how do i remove leading whitespace chars from ruby heredoc}[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3772864/how-do-i-remove-leading-whitespace-chars-from-ruby-heredoc].

== ALTERNATIVES

Despite minor API differences or edge-case behaviour, the following gems
implement equivalent unindenting functionality:

1. {outdent}[http://rubygems.org/gems/outdent] (formerly {unindentable}[http://rubygems.org/gems/unindentable])
2. {unindent}[http://rubygems.org/gems/unindent]
3. {indentation}[http://rubygems.org/gems/indentation] -- this gem has a broader scope, in addition to String#reset_indentation

=== So why another one?

Well, the fact is that the author only found about the other gems after he had
already implemented heredoc_unindent. And, frankly, that was fortunate:
benchmarking revealed that heredoc_unindent is by far the most efficient, both
in space (memory) and time (cycles).

=== Efficiency!

Depending on the Ruby implementation, heredoc_unindent is is about *1.6--2.4x*
*faster* than {unindent}[http://rubygems.org/gems/unindent], *1.9--6.6x*
*faster* than {indentation}[http://rubygems.org/gems/indentation],
and *4--19x* *faster* than {outdent}[http://rubygems.org/gems/outdent].
In addition, heredoc_unindent has the *lowest* *memory* *consumption*,
requiring only between a fifth and a sixth of the competitors.

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2011 Adriano Mitre

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
